Particle System

Emitters can be used to make smoke trails, fire effects and EXPLOSIONS

In Inspector -> Add Component -> Add Particle System

Hover over each particle to read description via the inspector.

[Part 1]

[Parts in Particle System]

1. Renderer: RenderMode -> Billboard

- Regeardless of orientation of camera or position billboard (if particle is in the shape of a cube) will make a square shape always face the camera (like billboard advertisment that always faces you)

2. Start Speed: controls velocity of particles

3. Start Lifetime: How far particles travel before dying

4. Emission Rate: If increased more particles in the same lifetime at the same velocity and vice versa

5. Max Particles: Affects Emission Rate -> puts a cap on how many particles can be created. More particles cannot be created until cap number of particles are dead. Gives a wave affect (think of wide angel shower gun in Contra).
NOTE: being able to control max particles ensures Top performance

6. Play On Awake: Awake on Play mode or via code

7. Gravity Modifier: Effects on particles with gravity

NOTE: Particles can also be affected by Wind! Setup a terrain add WindZone and add a Particle System to see what happens. (smoke effects, fire that is being blown by wind)

8. Shape: Affects direction partiles emmits from 

NOTE: Depending on radius set velocity of each particle can be different. Why? Starting points each particle is different.

MESHRENDER Can be added on to shape as well!

---

[Part 2]

[In SceneView]
Particle Effect Preview: Pause|Stop|Simulate, PlaybackSpeed|PlaybackTime|ParticleCount

REMEMBER Particle Count is affected by RATE + Lifetime + Max Number. (Good to know for render calculations to optimize game)

1. Size over Lifetime -> Curve: Check out presets and adjust to learn more

2. Size over Lifetime -> Random Between 2 Constants: Some particles are large, some are small, all arbitrary, it doesn't depend on lifetime.

3. Size over Lifetime -> Random Between 2 Curves: Double clicking adds in a second control on each curve line. 

4. Rotation Over Lifetime: Angualar Velocity is also curve adjustments you can make on Square particles to roatate. It can start slower and spin faster in the end or vice versa depending on curve.

5. Color Over Lifetime -> Gradient: You can create a gradient of color with various color points added (similar to a curve in color aspect). Try adjusting Color over Lifetime and then Size over Lifetime!

6. Color Over Lifetime -> Random Between 2 Gradients: Simialr to Size Over Lifetime|Random Between 2 Curves


---

[Part 3]

1. Duration: (without Looping) it sets length of particles being emitted. With looping the cycle repeats after what ever value of duration is set (ex: Duration: 5s = cycles every 5s)

2. Prewarm: Can only be used if looping is checked -> Creates the full particle emission. On Play it's as if the full duration took place instantly. Already at a steady rate regardless of Duration

3. Start Delay: Delays for a set time before simulating particles

4. Start Rotation: Particle emmits automatically at the set angle (does not rotate)

5. Inherit Velocity -> Mode -> Initial: If speed is changed at runtime, it doesn't affect particles that have already been created 

6. Inherit Velocity -> Mode -> Current: If speed is adjusted the particle velocity is affected.

7. External Forces -> Multipler: How much Wind Zone can affect particles

8. Texture Sheet Animation -> (Animated texture applied to particle like a flame): Frame Over Time: Can be Linear or Curved or Between 2 Constants.

9. Collisions: 2 Properties: Plane or World. Particles can be affected with other colliders. (Instead of just going through other meshes) 

10. Sub Emitters -> Birth|Collision|Death: Particles can spawn more particles. (Ex: if more particles added during death-> when particles die new particles can be spawned)
NOTE: Sub Emitters are Child Objects of Emitters that can have Sub Emitters themselves
